
more command in Linux with Examples
Last Updated : 02 Sep, 2024

The 'more' command in Linux is a useful tool for viewing text files in the command 
prompt, particularly when dealing with large files like log files. It displays the 
ontent one screen at a time, allowing users to scroll through the text easily. 
This command is especially handy for reviewing long outputs and can be combined with 
other commands using pipes.

Here, we’ll explore the various functionalities of the more command, including its 
syntax, options, and practical examples.
What is the 'more' Command?

The 'more' command is a basic pager program used in Unix-like systems to view text 
files in the command line interface. It provides a convenient way to navigate through 
files one screenful at a time, making it ideal for reading lengthy files without 
overwhelming the terminal with all the content at once.
Syntax:

more [-options] [-num] [+/pattern] [+linenum] [file_name]

where,

    [-options]: any option that you want to use in order to change the way the file is 
    displayed. Choose any one from the followings: 
    ('-d', '-l', '-f', '-p', '-c', '-s', '-u')
    [-num]: type the number of lines that you want to display per screen.
    [+/pattern]: replace the pattern with any string that you want to find in the text 
    file.
    [+linenum]: use the line number from where you want to start displaying the text 
    content.
    [file_name]: name of the file containing the text that you want to display on the 
    screen.

Navigating Through Text Files Using the 'more' Command

While viewing text files with 'more', you can use the following controls for navigation:

    Enter key: Scrolls down one line at a time.
    Space bar: Moves to the next page or screen.
    'b' key: Goes back one page.
    'q' key: Quits the more command and exits the view.

Common Options for the more Command
1. '-d' (Prompt Navigation Help)

Use this command in order to help the user to navigate.

    It displays "[Press space to continue, 'q' to quit.]" and,
    Displays "[Press 'h' for instructions.]" when wrong key is pressed. 

Example:

more -d sample.txt

2. '-f' (Disable Line Wrapping)

Displays long lines without wrapping them, showing them as they are in the file. 
This option is useful when the exact formatting of text is important.

Example:

more -f sample.txt

3. '-p' (Clear and Display)

Clears the screen before displaying the next page, making the reading experience 
cleaner by removing previously shown content.

Example:

more -p sample.txt

4. '-c' (Overlapping Text)

Overlaps the new text over the old text on the same screen space, providing a continuous 
reading flow without clearing the screen.

Example:

more -c sample.txt

5. '-s' (Squeeze Blank Lines)

Compresses multiple blank lines into a single blank line, making large documents more 
concise and easier to read.

Example:

more -s sample.txt

6. '-u' (Omit Underlines)

Removes underlined characters, which can be useful when viewing text files with special 
formatting that is not needed for content comprehension.

Example:

more -u sample.txt

7. '+/pattern' (Search Pattern)

This option is used to search the string inside your text document. You can view all 
the instances by navigating through the result.

Example:

more +/reset sample.txt

8. '+num' (Start at Line Number)

Displays the content starting from the specified line number, useful when you want to 
skip over the beginning of a file

Example:

more +30 sample.txt

Using 'more' to Read Long Outputs

We use more command after a pipe to see long outputs. For example, seeing log files, etc.

cat a.txt | more

Conclusion

The 'more' command in Linux is a simple yet powerful tool that significantly enhances 
the user experience when viewing and navigating through large text files. 
With its various options and seamless integration with other commands, mastering the 
'more' command can greatly improve your efficiency in managing text files within 
the command line environment.